.\" groff -man as21.1
.TH "ez21" 1 "January 23, 2005"

.SH NAME
ez21 \- Download to and boot a 218x or 219x. Upload from a 218x.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +5
.ti -5
.B ez21
.RB [ \-v ]
.ti -5
.B ez21
.RB [ \-b
.IR baud-rate ]
.RB [ \-B ]
.RB [ \-D ]
.RB [ \-d 
.IR device ]
.R file
.ti -5
.B ez21
.RB [ \-b
.IR baud-rate ]
.RB [ \-B ]
.RB [ \-D ]
.RB [ \-d 
.IR device ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-u
.IR "upload-list" "]"
.RI [ file ]
.ti -5
.B ez21
.RB [ \-A
.IR ack-string ]
.RB [ \-b
.IR baud-rate ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR 1|2|4|8|16|32 ]
.RB [ \-D ]
.RB [ \-d 
.IR device ]
.RB [ \-F ]
.RB [ \-O
.IR SPI|SPORT ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR 0\-7 ]
.RB [ \-W
.IR 8|16 ]
.RB [ \-w
.IR 8|16 ]
.R file
.in -5

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ez21
either downloads an ELF file to boot the 218x ez\-kit lite, downloads an
ELF file to boot a 219x using it\'s UART boot mode, or uploads data from
a 218x ez\-kit lite and saves it to a file or displays it.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS Common
.TP
.BI \-b " baud-rate"
Set the baud rate for communications to one of 2400, 4800,
9600, 19200, or 38400 baud.
.br
Default: 
.I 9600
baud.
.TP
.B \-D
Turn on communications logging to see what is being sent and received.
.TP
.BI \-d " device"
Specify the communications device to use.
.br
Default: 
.IR /dev/ttyS0 .
.TP
.B \-v
Print
.BR ez21 "\'s version information."

.SS 218x EZ-Kit Lite Specific
.TP
.B \-B
Have the ezkit generate a tone. The tone will be generated before
a transfer operation is performed if one is specified.
.TP
.B \-f
On upload, force overwritting of the target file if it already exists.
.TP
.BI \-u " upload-list"
Peform an upload, loading program and data from the locations specified
in the upload list. The upload list is a comma separated string of
memory locations of the form:
.sp
<memory type><memory range>
.sp
Where memory type is a lower or upper case \'p\' for program memory
or a lower or upper case \'d\' for data memory and memory range is
of the form:
.sp
.RS
<start address>:<length>
.sp
or
.sp
<start address>-<end address>
.sp
An example of an upload list is:
.sp
p0x40:10,d0x1000-0x2000
.sp
Note that numeric values can be octal (0N), decimal (N), or hexadecimal
(0xN) where N is a string of digits in the chosen base. Also, there can
be no spaces in the upload list.
.sp
.SS 219x UART Boot Mode Specific
.B Note:
The first byte of the control word is not normally sent when
booting via the UART (See ADI\'s EE-131 technical note) so the
.BR \-c ", "
.BR \-O ", and "
.B \-s
switches are not needed but are included for completeness.
.TP
.BI \-A " ack-string"
Specify a string to expect back from the processor being booted as an
acknowledgement that booting was successful. After UART booting is
complete the 219x boot code leaves the UART configured and simply
jumps to program address 0. The downloaded program can therefore
use the UART to send a string back to 
.B ez21
as an acknowledgement that downloading was successful. 
.B Ez21
compares any received string to the string specified by 
.I ack-string
and prints "Download successful" if the string was received 
or "Download failed" if it was not.
.br
Default:
.IR none \.
.TP
.BI \-c " 1|2|4|8|16|32"
Set the clock divider in the control word of the boot stream.
.br
Default:
.IR 32 \.
.TP
.B \-F
Also know as "Force first byte". Force sending the first byte of the
control word. For certain combinations of processor clock speed and
baud rate the first byte may be required. (See ADI\'s EE-131 technical
note)
.TP
.BI \-O " SPI|SPORT"
Set the operating mode in the boot stream control word to either SPORT2
enabled (SPI disabled) or SPI enabled (SPORT2 disabled).
.br
Default:
.IR SPORT \.
.TP
.BI \-s " 0-7"
.br
Set the number of wait states in the boot stream control word.
.br
Default:
.IR 7 \.
.TP
.BI \-W " 8|16"
.br
Set the external/host port bus width (bits) in the boot stream control word.
.br
Default:
.IR 8 " bits."
.TP
.BI \-w " 8|16"
.br
Set the external EEPROM width (bits) in the boot stream control word.
.br
Default:
.IR 8 " bits."


.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B Ez21
generates a number of error messages which are self explanatory.

.SH KNOWN BUGS
None!

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Keith Clifford:
.br
email: <sharpshinwm@telus.net>
.br
web:   http://www3.telus.net/sharpshin

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <sharpshinwm@telus.net>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright\(co 2002 Free Software Foundation, Inc. This is
free software; see the source for copying  conditions.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR as21 "(1), " elfdump "(1), " ld21 "(1), " verify21 (1).

Note: elfdump and verify21 are primarily useful for debugging
the tools themselves so are not installed.


